explain with examples:

1) explain all input types with examples

(examples index.html)


Text input: it accepts text it is mainly user name personal information like first name and last name.
password input: It is same like text input but when we type it does not display what we are typing.
Sumbit type: this is a button its function is to submit the text input.
reset type: This is button its functionality is to clear all the text and password fields in the form.
radio type: this is also a button but its visuality is diffenent its funcationality is to select only one option in given options.
checkbox: this is similar to radio button but this let the user to select multiple options.
Input button: this is to alert the user that you have pressed this button.
Number input type: this type allow user to select number in a range. 
date type: this allow user to pick a particular date like date of birth, date of joining.
colortype: this ia color picker. this allow user to select a color.
range type: this is range number picker user should should pick numbers within range.

month type: this is similar to date picker but this is only for picking month.
week type: this type allows user to pick a week in a particular month and year.
time type: this type allow user to select a perfered time like car rental, motel booking online.
datetime-local: this is combination of date and time type. this allow user to select date and time at a time.
email: this allow user to input the email it allows only email it should contain extention like @gmail.com
search type: this creates a text box which is connected to google search.
tel type: this number which allows to type mobile or telephone number.
url: this type is used to input webpage address. 


2) explain all the input attributes?
(examples index1.html)
value attribute: with this we can initialize the value inline itself.
readonly attribute: this atrribute is same as value atrribute it is initialized inline but can't change in the page.
disabled attribute: if we initialize this attribute inline the user can't enter the value.
size attribute: with this attribute can set the text box type size.
maxlenght attribute: With this attribute we can set a character lenght and the text type accepts only that many characters.
autocomplete attribute: this attribute can set the text input field auto fill on and off.
novalidate attribute: this is form tag attribute and  this is used to set turn off validation.
autofocus attribute: this attribute enables the mouse pointer in text input field when the page loads.
form attribute: this attribute create as the form attribute.
foraction attribute: this attribute is used to send the information in the text input to the server.
formenctype attribute: this attribute used with submit and image only, this attribute is used how the data should be proceded.
formmethod attribute: this attribute is used to send the data to action url. 
formnovalidate attribute: this attribute overrides the novalidate attribute.
formtarget attribute: with this attribute create the output to open another new tab.
height and width attribute: with this we can set particular size of the image.
list attribute: this attribute create a drop down list of any list mentioned in data list tag.
min and max attribute: this attribute can create particular years in the years selecction. 
multiple attribute: this attribute is used to upload or select more than one file if this attribute is used it accepts only one file.
pattern attribute: this create a warning when it is not matched with the three letters.
placeholder attribute: this attribute creates a hint in the text field what should be written in the field.
required attribute: this attribute will create a warning if it left blank while submittion.
step attribute: this is number attribute which gives a list of numbers with step3 like 0,3,6,9etc

3) what are sematic elements ? 

semantic elements clearly explaines about the structure and sets  all the different parts into one the web site. semantic elements are header,footer, nav, section, article, aside.

4) diff between article, section, div

Section: this is introducted in html5 it is similar to <div>. This tag is a container element. This <section> tag has a meaning.
Div: this is a block level element and there is no meaning before html5 this element is used most.
article: this is mainly used in the blog forums. 

5) explain with exmaples about <article>, <aside>, <details>, <figcaption>, <figure>, <footer>, <header>, <main>, <mark>, <nav>, <section>, <summary>, <time>

(examples index2.html)
<article>: this is used to specify the independent information like blog comment.
<aside>: this is used to specific content with heading.
<details>: this tag is used to hide and view the data.
<figcaption>: this tag is used to give a description to image added.
<figure>: with this tag, can add images and set the size for it like width and height.
<footer>: with this tag we can define a footer for the page with this we can mention copyright information, author informatio.
<header>: this tag holds introduction content in the webpage.
<main>: This main tag specifies the main information content of the page.
<mark>: this tag create a color on the background on which word this tag is mentioned
<nav>: this tag create a navigation links bar.
 <section>: With this tag it is defined as headers footers.
 <summary>:this tag is used to write summary of the web page.
<time>: which this we can set time but it is not shown in the web page.

6) what are from and what is form validation in html?

Form Validation is to get all information you want and making sure no field is left blank like
In name field if we set the length it checks the length entered.
Email field if we set a pattern for email field like it should end with @gmail.com, @yahoo.com.
mobile number field if we set number length it checks the number length if it is short it gives warning. 

7) differences between html4 and html5? explain in more details

1. Simplified syntax: In html4 doctype element is to length but in html5 it is short <!DOCTYPE html>.
2. Multimedia elements: In Html4 there are no multimedia elements which if we want to add it is added by third party plugins in html5 audio and video tags are introduced.
3. GPS loacation: Now a days GPS detecting in web page is complulsory with html4 GPS can't be deteched but in html5 it can.
4. Client Side Storage: In HTML4, in order to store consequential data on client side browsers cache was utilized. However, that cache is reduced and doesn’t support relational storage mechanism. 
   In HTML5 this issue has been sloved with Web SQL database and application cache that can be used with HTML5’s JavaScript.
5. client server Communication: In HTML4 the communication between the client and server was done through streaming and long polling.
   HTML5 contains web sockets that sanction full duplex communication between clients and servers.
6. There are so many tags and atrribute are introduced in html5 they are disscussed in 1,2 and 5 questions.