explain with examples:

1) different types in css? 
there are three types in css they are
1. External: all the styles ar written in different file with extention .css what changes are made in this file it is reflected in webpage.
2. Internal: In internal all the styles are written in the webpage itself but it is written in head section under style section.
3. Inline: In line is specified in the tag but is specific to the tag itself.

2) what is cascading in css?

Three main sources of style information form a cascade. They are:

1. The browser's default styles for the markup language.
2. Styles specified by a user who is reading the document.
3. The styles linked to the document by its author. These can be specified in three places:
	External file: Method of defining styles.
	Internal: use this method only for styles that are used only on that page.
	Inline: this is the least maintainable method, but can be used for testing.

3) why do we need to use css?
The uses of CSS are
1. CSS Helps avoid duplication
2. we can make changes we easier.
3. Allows you to make style changes in one place


4) which type of css is a better practice?

Inline styling is the least efficient and less used methods
internal styling is good for single page application.
External styling is most widely used type of styling in CSS.


5) what are selectors and why do we need them in css?
1. Type selectors
This basic selector chooses all elements that matches the given name.

2.Class selectors
This basic selector chooses elements based on the value of their class attribute.

3. ID selectors
This basic selector chooses nodes based on the value of its id attribute. There should be only one element with a given ID in a document.

4. Universal selectors
This basic selector chooses all nodes. It also exists in a one-namespace only and in an all-namespace variant too.

5. Attribute selectors
This basic selector chooses nodes based on the value of one of its attributes.

CSS use selectors to bind style properties to elements in the webpage.
