Home work 2

Look into all the keywords below

1.	try to clone my repo 
https://github.com/karthikkrishna611/UIClassDecember-18-2016

 

2.	attempt to create a own repo for submitting homwork and list down all the steps in creating repo in github.com

In the top left corner of the github account, by clicking on the add symbol a list will drop down and click on new repository option. 
After, a new page will be opened in the page type the repository name and click on the public option and check the initialize the repository option 
And click on create repository. 

3.	research about all git hub commands and write an explanation for all the following commands in details and when to use them

	git hub cheat sheet link: https://www.git-tower.com/blog/git-cheat-sheet/


Clone: This command is used to copy the existing git repository 
Init: this command is used to make directory as the git repository.
Add: this command is to add the unstaged files to staged files in the command line then commit the changes.
MV:  this command is used to rename any file or to rename a file in the local repository.
Reset: This command is used to make the current branch and reset to somewhere. There are four types reset soft, hard, mixed, merge.
Rm: this command is used to remove the files from the repository and not from the file system.
Bisect: This command is to find the problem creating commit. Suppose we have series of commits, in that a commits one commit creates a bug in the code we can use bisect command.
Grep: This command is used to find a specific folder or file and a specific pattern files.
Log: this command is used to view commit history when we made series od commits
Show: This command is used to show the log messages, tag messages and trees.
Status: This command is used to see staus of the repository wheather the source code files is statged are unstaged.
Branch: command will list all the local branches in the repository. 
Checkout: This command is used to switch to a specific branch. For suppose if A , B and C are the branches if we want to switch B branch this command is used.
Commit: this command is used to save the changes made in the index with a commit message.
Diff: this shows the changes in the working tree and index and changes in the two files
Merge: This command is used to merge the two commits.
Rebase: This command is basically to move from one commit to another commit. This command is a process of moving a branch to initial commit 
Tag: This is to add tags to commit ID’s. 
Fetch: this command is used to import the remote repository to local repository and the next commits will be saved as remote branchs.
Pull: This command is used to get the code from remote repository when a two persons are working the code. 
Push: used to sent the working code to the remote repository.

